h1. anim8 

Animation library for "LÖVE":http://love2d.org .

It divides animations into two parts: grids and animations.

@anim8.newGrid(frameWidth, frameHeight, imageWidth, imageHeight, left, top, border)@:

Creates a *Grid*. Grids are useful for quickly defining frames (in LÖVE terminology, they are called *Quads*. The last 3 parameters are optional.

@anim8.newAnimation(mode, frames, defaultDelay, delays)@:

Creates a new *Animation*. Animations can be updated and drawn (they need a target image to do that). @delays@ is optional

h1. Example 

<pre class="lua">
local anim8 = require 'anim8'

local image, animation

function love.load()
  image = love.graphics.newImage('path/to/image.png')
  local g = anim8.newGrid(32, 32, image:getWidth(), image:getHeight())
  animation = anim8.newAnimation('loop', g('1-8,1'), 0.1)
end

function love.update(dt)
  animation:update(dt)
end

function love.draw()
  animation:draw(image, 100, 200)
end
</pre>

h1. Explanation

h2. Grids

Grids have only one purpose: To build groups of quads of the same size as easily as possible. In order to do this, they need to know only 2 things: the size of each quad and the size of the image they will be applied two. Each size is a width and a height, and those are the first 4 parameters of @anim8.newGrid@.

Grids are just a convenient way of getting frames from a sprite. Frames are assumed to be distributed in rows and columns. Frame 1,1 is the one in the first row, first column.

The last 3 parameters of newGrid default to 0. They are called @left@, @right@ @border@. They allow you to handle those cases in which the frames start slightly up or left, or have "borders" that must be ignored.

Grids only have one important method: @Grid:getFrames(...)@.

@Grid:getFrames@ accepts an arbitrary number of parameters. They can be either numbers or strings.

* Each two numbers are interpreted as quad coordinates. This way, @grid:getFrames(3,4)@ will return the frame in column 3, row 4 of the grid. There can be more than just two: @grid:getFrames(1,1, 1,2, 1,3)@ will return the frames in {1,1}, {1,2} and {1,3} respectively. 
* Using numbers for long rows is tedious - so grids also accept strings. The previous row of 3 elements, for example, can be also expressed like this: @grid:getFrames('1,1-3')@ . Again, there can be more than one string (@grid:getFrames('1,1-3', '2-4,3')@) and it's also possible to combine them with numbers (@grid:getFrames(1,4, '1,1-3')@)

But you will probably never use getFrames directly. You can use a grid as if it was a function, and getFrames will be called. In other words, given a grid called @g@, this:

<pre>g:getFrames('2-8,1', 1,2)</pre>

Is equivalent to this:

<pre>g('2-8,1', 1,2)</pre>

This is very convenient to use in animations.

h2. Animations

Animations are groups of frames that are interchanged every now and then.

@anim8.newAnimation(mode, frames, defaultDelay, delays)@:

@mode@ can have three different values:

* @"loop"@ is the most used one. Once an animation reaches the last frame, it starts with the first one again.
* @"once"@: the animation that gets repeated only once, and then stays on the last frame forever (or until reset).
* @"bounce"@: when the animation reaches the last frame, it starts "going backwards" until it reaches the first frame again, and then "goes forward" again.


@frames@ is an array of frames (Quads in LÖVE argot). You could provide your own quad array if you wanted to, but using a grid to get them is very convenient.

@defaultDelay@ is the amount of time that the animation must spend on each frame, unless given other orders. It must be a positive number.

@delays@ is an optional parameter. It specifies individual delays for frames. You can specify delays for all frames, like this: @{0.1, 0.5, 0.1}@ or you can specify delays only for some frames, and leave the rest by default: @{[2]=0.5}@. Finally, you can also use strings to denote ranges: @{'3-5'=0.2}@.

Animations have the following methods:

@Animation:update(dt)@

Use this inside @love.update(dt)@ so that your animation changes frames according to the time that has passed.

@Animation:draw(image, x,y, angle, sx, sy, ox, oy)@

Draws the current frame in the specified coordinates with the right angle, scale and offset. These parameters work exacly the same way as in "love.graphics.drawq":https://love2d.org/wiki/love.graphics.drawq .

@Animation:gotoFrame(frame)@

Moves the animation to a given frame (frames start counting in 1).

@Animation:pause()@

Stops the animation from updating (@animation:update(dt)@ will have no effect)

@Animation:resume()@

Unpauses an animation


h1. Installation

Just copy the anim8.lua file wherever you want it. Then require it wherever you need it:

<pre>local anim8 = require 'anim8'</pre>

Please make sure that you read the license, too (for your convenience it's included at the beginning of the anim8.lua file).

h1. Specs

This project uses "telescope":https://github.com/norman/telescope for its specs. If you want to run the specs, you will have to install telescope first. Then just execute the following from the root inspect folder:

<pre>
tsc -f spec/*
</pre>
